All
[Music]
right, half an hour away from the opens
in Hong Kong, Shenzhen, and Shanghai.
You're watching the China show. I'm Ivon
Man with Annabelle Jewelers.
Our top story is cautious trading in
Asia as investors assess the latest
trade headlines. President Trump just
confirming a 50% copper tariff from
August as well as a 20% rate for the
Philippines and 50% for Brazil.
Japanese bonds in focus today ahead of a
pivotal 20-year auction set to put the
spotlight back on longerterm debt. Plus,
we speak exclusively with Geek Plus
about their trading debut in Hong Kong,
expansion plans, and AI robotics
innovations.
Well, let's take a look at the market
action so far this morning. I think that
there's really a key thing that's coming
out of it so far is that the sentiment
is sort of changing. We came into the
session today and really the focus for
us was on sort of how traders were
looking past all of the trade headlines.
that kind of seems to have changed that
calculus just in the last few minutes
because we had President Trump saying
that the copper tariff that he had
announced at 50% duties on US imports
was going to be effective from August 1.
So taking a look at the market reaction
to that you've got LME copper just
coming online this morning a little bit
high but mainly watching that comx
contract there. You can see in the
bottom right a jump there of around 3%.
Again it does really put that question
are we going to see the same sort of
demand in the US moving forward? What
does that mean for global co copper
supplies as well and and how much of a
premium do we continue to see again for
that comx contract? Uh so that is the
state of place we come into the session
this morning. We are just seeing volumes
that are pretty thin across the board.
So it tells you investors still in their
wait and see mode and you're seeing US
futures a little bit under pressure so
far today. Overnight though uh that
focus was very much on what was
happening in the tech space. And let's
actually take a look at the Nvidia
supplies in the session so far today.
Given we had Nvidia rallying overnight,
becoming the first $4 trillion
company ever. I mean, just let that
maybe just sink in a little bit. The
size of Nvidia and how it's managing to
look past all of the the geopolitical
concerns, the relationship between the
US and China as well and the tariff
headlines. But you are just seeing some
of these suppliers moving higher so far
today. And again, looking at that
session for the open in China this
morning, a little bit under pressure so
far. And I think one of the trends that
we're seeing that's continuing to be
discussed and a bit of push back as
well. We saw in local media yesterday
afternoon is on those price wars, those
delivery price wars. What are the
discounts that are on offer from from
Mwan, from JD, from Alibaba say try to
compete. It's that sort of broader
involution trend. And we've got
government officials again through uh
through local media saying there are no
real winners when you have this sort of
thing. And where does it go, right? When
you talk about what's been going on with
JD just announcing that new program and
that's that's what kickstarted all this.
I think the China Today column talked
about you get free boba if you buy like
up to a few items on Alibaba. And that
really goes to show how fierce this
competition is right now in the food
delivery space. And it really has
weighed on the likes of Alibaba and
Mtoan. They are one of the worst stocks
in the HS Tech here uh this year. Let's
get to our top story now though.
President Trump saying the US will begin
levying a 50% tariff on copper imports
from August 1st and that's after he
unveiled a new round of new tariff rates
on countries like Brazil to the
Philippines. Let's get to our editor
Jill Dies with more on on just keep us
up to speed today what's going on.
Okay. Well, I just well I guess we'll
start with copper since that's the
latest line here. Obviously, Trump's
been telegraphing for several months now
that a levy on copper would likely be
coming into effect. That 50% higher than
I think what was previously anticipated,
but that is the number that he's been
floating recently. Um, all that being
said, I do feel like a broken record on
this program sometimes because I have to
point out that I still have a lot of
questions about uh the specific tariff,
how it's going to go into effect, what
exactly that means for copper that's on
the water right now. Because as we know,
global traders have been racing to ship
uh shipments into the US. Um you know,
sending them to Hawaii, uh to Puerto
Rico, trying to get everything handled
before this uh tariff goes into effect.
That August one deadline is what Trump
says. Oh, I should also point out, we
don't even know what types of copper are
affected ultimately. So, lots of
questions there. But that August 1
deadline, I mean, um in the past with
some of the other metals that Trump has
targeted with his duties, we've seen
exemptions for shipments that were
already in transit. this time around. I
don't think we know yet exactly what's
happening. So, I I do think that that's
probably going to cause a lot of
uncertainty today just as we kind of
sift through what exactly Trump means
like this. Again, very classic Trump.
You get an announcement like this and
then you kind of race to figure out
exactly what's uh you know, you know,
what's in the details here. Um but yeah,
I think that's that one is um you know,
certainly one that we're looking out
for. Um obviously the Brazil tariffs um
that have been announced, another big
one. And I would point out that um
Brazil was not on that initial list of
liberation day tariffs back in April
likely because Brazil is the only
country that um you know among this list
that actually runs a deficit uh with the
United States. Um you know it's a small
one um relative but uh you know it's
still a deficit but uh this does seem to
come from a place at least for Trump uh
where um you know it feels a bit
personal. he really is kind of singling
out um Brazil and um specifically former
leader Bolsinaro, that far-right
populist leader that I think um that
right now is um you know on trial for an
alleged coup attempt. Um that's
something that Trump's really been
targeting with this tariff. So seems a
little bit divorced from some of the
economic reasons. But I'd also point out
that Trump has also been going after um
BRICS countries in recent days. Lula
from Brazil was one of the only BRICS
leaders along with um the leader of
South Africa who actually was kind of
hammering Trump over various issues. So,
I'm not sure how much of that's kind of
a reason why Brazil has drawn Trump's
eye now, but there you go. That's um now
we've got this uh tariff that could be
going into effects on Brazil.
Yeah, I find it really interesting the
letters that were sent out because we
had in that graphic there the eight
different countries that got these
letters and you look at sort of like how
how important is this trading
relationship to the US? And you can see
here, well, there's Brazil of course,
but they're they're looking a little bit
different, but out of the others, it's
only the Philippines that makes it into
the top 50. So, so why these countries
and and again who's next?
I mean, I think Bel you could ask that
same question when we had that big giant
board that Trump had back in um April
when you had tariffs that were announced
against pretty much every conceivable um
trading partner even if it was um
incredibly small. I think yes to your
point of those remaining countries um
down uh that that imports from those
nations amounted to less than 15 billion
last year um if you take out the
Philippines, if you take out Brazil. So
yes, I mean really really small ball
countries here. I mean, I'm not sure how
much of this is uh, you know, Trump
trying to get out um, you know, just
sort of finalizing a bunch of stuff for
for countries that he had already
announced back in April. He's trying to
get ahead of you know, whatever
self-imposed deadlines he may have now
this August 1st deadline that he's
talking about. But it does kind of show
you that um, you know, some of this
stuff still kind of, you know, for as
much as Trump talks about how um, you
know, there's all this logic that's
going into these um, decisions and what
he's thinking about with the calculus
for these tariffs, um, some of this is
really just um, you know, again, still
quite confusing. You're seeing a chart
there of the US's biggest trading
partners where you know you would
actually think um you know in in in some
of these cases we still don't have
letters on um you know some of these
more critical trading partners or we
still have a lot of questions about
those more critical trading partners. So
the whole thing the way that it's been
that that it's been rolled out obviously
does leave a lot of uncertainty does
leave a lot of questions and I think
still um even when you go back to
earlier this week Trump saying this
deadline isn't 100% for him seems to be
changing his mind again still a lot of
open questions in the next few weeks.
Yeah, certainly as Jill G is there, our
editor, trying to bring it all up to
speed here. And it's interesting, right?
You take a look what central banks have
done this week. You know, the likes of
RBA, RBNZ, even the Bank of Korea just
now. You know, they they still seem to
be sitting on the sidelines to see what
these tariff impacts are going to have
on inflation. You certainly see that in
the Fed minutes overnight as well,
right? And you're we're starting to see
a lot of a growing divide among Fed
officials about whether this is going to
be a one-time increase when it comes to
inflation or something that is more
sustainable. And certainly that's the
reason why we're seeing the market still
quite debatable about whether we're
going to see those two rate cuts that
have been priced in so far this year. Uh
but then again, look, markets have
shrugged it all off, right? When I'm
talking about, you know, Nvidia being a
$4 trillion market cap and you talk
about Bitcoin at 112,000. We've moved
past all this sort of concerns. It seems
at this point,
it does seem like we've moved past it
maybe this morning or maybe within these
hours, but this is a this is a market
that's very headline sensitive as well.
And I think it's interesting what you
said about the Fed minutes. You know,
it's that that question of what does it
mean for longerterm expectations are
those going to stay anchored? If they
are unanchored, how much more
challenging is that for for the Fed
moving forward? And you saw as well that
lack of consensus around how many cuts
this year? Is it going to be two? Is it
going to be one? Is it going to be none?
Yeah, that was very much a possibility
as well. But you mentioned about the the
tech story and that was a big one in the
session overnight. That big milestone
for Nvidia, the first ever $4 trillion
company. But let's bring in Nadia Grant
now, head of global equity at BMP,
Parabar Asset Management. And and Nadia,
we can get to you on on tech, the theme
broadly because you've got the US as is
a major holding field. That's your major
market that you're looking at. You're
looking a lot of these big tech names in
particular, also from Taiwan, TSMC for
instance. Do you see any concerns or do
you speak with anyone any concerns about
about the the strength of this rally
around AI optimism and whether it could
be tested by those geopolitical
headlines?
Yeah. Um basically what what we've
learned is um when we started the year
uh we had we had peak enthusiasm around
the AI theme. that was the only uh
basically theme that had propelled the
market the past few years from not just
a price appreciation standpoint but also
from an earnings standpoint was really
the main driver of um S&P 500 earnings
and so deepseek was a big shock and
we've seen the US side of the AI complex
really uh um uh correcting quite sharply
on the on the back of that and it was
obviously uh potentially great news if
we think that uh uh we'll have cheaper
model then we can bring demand forward
then we can we can have more consumption
uh as as as the jeans paradox states and
and and so there was a lot of
questioning uh obviously there was
overcrowding but a lot of questioning on
will uh this company all of these big
investments are they going to be uh
still necessary and will these big
investment that the hyperscalers have
done towards AI will will they erode the
return on investment that these
companies have historically generated
and will they erode the free cash flow
margins that they generate because
that's really what's stands them apart
from the rest of the market. Um, and
what we've what we've learned
subsequently, so we've seen actually the
the on the US side particularly those
names really lagging uh for the the the
better part of the the beginning of the
year. Uh you also had the momentum and
wine that added to that pressure. Uh and
what we've ear what we've learned is
that you've had two earning seasons. So
you had the the fourth quarter and the
first quarter and what you've learned is
actually that uh um they they've been
able to uh uh accelerate their top line.
So those investment in AI are actually
starting to bear fruit. They're also uh
saying that they're going to be
disciplined in terms of managing their
cost line. And so uh we're we're we're
thinking that actually the returns and
the free cash flow generation is not
going to be uh damaged. Uh and uh what
they've said very importantly is that
they'll continue to invest heavily. Uh
and so capex is up again uh and and you
have these hundreds of billions of capex
that are being deployed which is very
positive for the chips and for uh for
the likes uh of Nvidia and and uh from a
geopolitical standpoint where you've had
a lot of obviously uncertainty on
earnings because of tariff what you've
seen is that the the tech complex has
been pretty insulated from that and it's
been the only cohorts of stock that have
seen earnings upgrade uh at the
beginning of the year when everything
else was being sort of downgrading on
the back of that uncertainty. Um, so I
absolutely continue to believe in that
theme. It's a multi-year theme and we
we're seeing the capex and we're seeing
well the the like of the the semis
company being able to shrug off some of
the political uncertainty from uh having
uh obviously ban uh on exports on China
but having such high demand uh for their
new product elsewhere that they're able
to offset uh the bulk of that. So uh a
pretty constructive outlook uh still
so keep calm carry on I mean how should
I look at US stocks in particular beyond
just the the the megga cap tech I mean
how how can I look at US overall as a
market now
so when we look at the US overall uh we
think you obviously have that
self-inflicted slowdown uh because the
impact of the tariff is going to be felt
uh we're really keen to uh listen to
companies uh for their Q3 uh uh return
results because uh we'll start to see
what uh the actual impact is uh uh to
them from an inflation standpoint, from
a from an earnings standpoint. Um and so
uh u we think that actually the US when
it has been so exceptional at having
higher growth versus the rest of the
world um perhaps this year because of
the impact of tariff will close that gap
and so that happens at the same time as
other markets are having positive
catalyst uh and I'm thinking about uh
the infrastructure plan in Europe uh or
reharm Europe uh and so a big catalyst
to to boost growth to have a fiscally
loose policy and at the same time as
having a loose monetary policy. Uh so we
think that there are other areas uh that
are starting to look uh very attractive
in that context of slowing uh US growth
uh and likewise finding a lot of
opportunities uh here in Asia.
Well, that's what we want to talk to you
about because I think there was sort of
a sentence that stood out to both of and
I in in your notes and it was sharpening
your pencils on China. What what do you
mean by that? So we already um are very
positive on China tech uh because of uh
of China closing the race on on AI and
so that that's positioning that we've
we've already had uh but really
intrigued uh by by other things as well.
So we are we we we really like the sort
of secular growth uh in financial
services in in China. So we also have
exposure to insurance company as there's
a lot of green field there a lot of
organic growth opportunities to serve uh
uh population that do not have as much
in terms of saving plans and and and and
uh and and life insurance. So uh we
really have a great confidence there uh
that the market is going to continue to
be uh to be booming. Uh but where we
where we uh we're sharpening the pencil
is we're really keen to understand
better uh what uh supply side reform
could mean um and what is actually going
to happen. Um so uh these
anti-involution
uh measures um uh because where we had
um fears or where we were less positive
or less constructive was really on uh
the the the sort of the battery side the
EV side uh or on the uh uh on on sector
on the solar uh where where you've had
obviously as you mentioned earlier on a
lot of over supplies fierce competition
and that's very much margin eroding
return on equity eroding uh And so if
you start really uh instilling a degree
of price discipline of supply discipline
uh this would be really positive for the
market and for the margins and returns
of the the companies in those sectors.
Nadia thanks very much for joining us
and and come back when you're next in
Hong Kong. That was Nadia Grandpair,
head of global equity at BMP, Parabar
Asset Management. And we're counting
down, of course, the open of trade in
Shanghai, Shenzhen, Hong Kong. Just got
the yuan reference coming rate coming
out 71510 per US dollar. The estimate
had been for 7174.
So really big uh difference there again
to what had been sort of indicated
earlier. But you're watching the China
show. Futures looking for a weaker
start. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Recapping the the yuan fix, we just got
that in the last couple of minutes. So
the reference rate has come in at 71510.
The estimate had been for 71794.
still pretty much in line with where
we've seen the PBOC setting in in recent
days, but certainly a big gap there
again to the estimate.
Yeah, but still pretty steady overall
when it comes to the currency despite
all these tariff headlines as well.
Let's get to our next interview. The CEO
of private equity firm Warbert Pinkis
thinks Vietnam's deal for a 20% tariff
rate in the US still leaves it in a
competitive position. Jeffrey Pearlman
told us exclusively that other Southeast
Asian nations will probably end up
facing similar levies.
I think Vietnam got out in front of uh
obviously a very complicated uh uh
environment and I think being proactive
I think was a positive. I think landing
we'll see where it lands for everyone
else but I think getting to that 20% uh
threshold makes it very competitive uh
for Vietnam going forward. I think most
countries probably I mean we saw the
most recent announcement. My sense is
some of those end up coming down as they
get negotiated. So I think 20% ends up
very competitive. we know the the the
bottom line is going to be at least
something more than 10%. So as long as
you're kind of sitting in that 15 to 20%
I think it's very competitive and so I
think Vietnam uh as we sit today and
obviously things can change but it feels
well positioned uh given the overall
environment.
There are countries like Thailand for
instance which may just see lower
tariffs in Vietnam. Would Vietnam lose
its competitiveness as a result of that
or other factors that make Vietnam
really attractive to investors like
yourself?
You know, it's a it's a great question.
I think uh because most a lot of the
products that are made uh in in
Southeast Asia and in Vietnam as well
are I think the US administration has
been fairly clear that they're probably
ones that are not going to be made uh in
the US. And so my own view is I think
the tariff rates will probably be pretty
close uh sitting on top of each other
across a number of those markets. And
and the reason being is if you have one
country that's at 40%, others are at
20%. It's just going to shift the trade
deficit from one country uh to uh to
another. And so I think the US
administration understands that. And so
my sense is again it it's going to end
up I think for ASEAN countries is my
sense they're going to be pretty you
know close together on that front. But I
think what Vietnam has created is a
tremendous ecosystem of uh the queen
bees and other of the key manufacturing
kind of power centers and that's very
valuable. You saw them produced through
co uh that really established I think
their reputation even more uh as a
highquality producer. Uh and I think
that positions them well. Even if other
markets ended up at 15% and they're 20,
I still think that's very competitive
going forward. As we think about Asia,
you know, what I like about Asia is
obviously in a world of higher rates,
you need growth. You know, Asia is going
to represent twothirds of global growth
over the next decade. So, I think from
that perspective, it's it's very well
positioned. Uh we've been in the region
for 30 years. We just celebrated our
30th anniversary last year. In fact,
next year will be our 30th anniversary
in India. So, we've been in these
markets a long time. And I think when
you think about especially playing the
emerging consumer uh whether again it's
it's in housing and retail uh areas like
private education healthcare and
especially financial services financial
services if you looked at the last 30
years that we've been in India there has
not been a single moment in time in
those 30 years that we weren't invested
in financial services from sponsoring
the two largest private sector banks
HDFC and Kota through our most recent
investment back into IDFC first which we
made after liberation day. Um financial
services is really poised for we we
think a lot of growth uh going forward.
You talked about India. How about other
markets like Japan which seems to be
quite attractive to a lot of investors.
Yeah look Japan is certainly when I
think about investors and their
diversification certainly the US has
been a huge market for them. Uh sprinkle
a little bit of India and certainly now
increasingly they want more exposure to
Japan. Look, we've seen major structural
reforms obviously uh in terms of pushing
more efficiency uh within corporates
across Japan. We think that is
transformational uh from a private
equity perspective. It's going to set up
more opportunities for for groups like
ourselves. We've been active in Japan
over the years in real estate, whether
it's logistics, data centers, uh life
sciences, and R&D assets. Uh but from a
private equity perspective, I think
where we're uniquely positioned as
growth investors is there are some great
brands in Japan that need help to grow
outside of Japan. And so that's one of
the great elements of I think for Warber
Pinkis being a global partnership is we
can help to take those companies uh
overseas and really leverage our
footprint around the world.
That was the Warbert Pinker CEO Jeffrey
Pearlman speaking to Bloomberg's Hinder
Ramen at the Techcom Bank Investment
Summit in Hanoi. And we are just over 5
minutes away now from the open of trade
this morning in mainland China and Hong
Kong. Futures are pointing toward a
little bit of weakness here. It's that
big continuing focus on these tariff
headlines. We just got President Trump
announcing 50% duties on copper imports
to take effect August 1. More letters
have been sent out. There's concerns
around the involution trend in China,
but still uh CL is one that's been
really rising in Hong Kong. We've
actually seen a 46% gain uh following
its May debut and shares now at a
complete premium.
Yeah, a premium of the A shares. There's
about a 30% premium, which is quite rare
to see for an eight share stock as well.
But yeah, JP Morgan saying, look, maybe
prepare for some sort of pullback now in
Hong Kong after this massive rally we've
seen. Plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
some stocks to watch here at the moment.
We're focusing very much on the HS tech
space here this morning just given
Nvidia surge of course uh to that $4
trillion briefly market cap. So we're
not seeing actually that followthrough
in some of these tech shares here this
morning. In fact, Alibaba uh you watch
the food delivery space, right? That's
just getting hotter and hotter. You're
seeing HSBC slashing that price target
by 15% on that sort of competition and
the amount of investment that they're
putting uh into this sort of price war
here as well. And of course, pre-market
looking like this. Hang sang slightly to
the downside. The open is next.
[Music]
You're watching the China Show and I can
hear the the rumblings of of thunder
outside the studio this morning. We do
have a a a thunderstorm warning that's
just taken apart. Amber rain warning. If
you're watching us, I'm glad that you're
at least inside hopefully and not
outdoors because it it looks very very
grizzly out there. Shanghai as well. You
can see the excessive heat warning. So,
that is the weather update. But let's
also on let's talk about the market
action today because I think we're also
coming into this with with lots of
questions around these Trump tariffs who
got the letters, the copper deadline
that we've got now as well. I mean,
there's really a lot to be considering
today
and I'm still trying to look at that
that beauty cabin in Hong Kong. You
can't see anything out there right now.
So yes, brace yourselves guys today. But
yes, when it comes to the volatility
that you're seeing these markets,
there's not I mean it's kind of a lack
thereof, right? When you take a look at
what we've been seeing in these markets
when you have the likes of Nvidia, you
know, reaching 4 trillion in market cap
overnight, US stocks were near records
and Bitcoin's at 112,000, right? I mean,
what's there to worry about? And most
are the narrative seems to be forget the
tariffs, let's just focus on earnings
moving forward here as well. So that
seems to be the sort of narrative that
we're seeing here today. Onore markets
are looking pretty decent here at the
get-go. Shanghai's up about a tenth of
1%. We barely made that sort of
milestone yesterday, but we're close to
what the 2025 highs for the CSI 300 as
well. Copper prices as we've been
talking about, right? So, we are seeing
at least the COMX futures in the US perk
up a little bit on the prospect of what
Trump has said that these copper tariffs
of 50% are going to go into effect in
August 1st. So, LME contracts heading
lower. So is a Shanghai one here this
morning. We're down about 810 of 1%. So
copper stocks very much in focus here
today, but we're watching like some of
iron ore. Shanghai crude still do
looking pretty well. CL though, that's
the big one to watch. We're not even
sure what's really driving the sort of
massive rally, but we talk about this
sort of record premium that we're seeing
over the eight shares over the A shares.
It just goes to show the demand picture
for this stock is still very much redot
here. We're seeing 1% gain on the A
share right now, but it's a 30% premium
in the H shares over the A. That
certainly is something that's
interesting. JP Morgan say look there
might be some you know real ripeness for
a pullback when it comes to the eight
shares here something to watch as well
flip the boards we're watching also what
goes on Hong Kong tech very much in
focus here given what we saw in Nvidia
overnight we're not seeing that follow
through though in this whole HS tech
space we're actually down about 4/10en
of 1% hang is down about about a tenth
of 1% here right now it's really comes
down to what we're seeing and it seems
like a lot of the concerns around food
delivery are really kind of leading the
likes of Alibaba by Mtoan and JD lower.
There you go. JD is down two and a
half%. They announced just yesterday
this new sort of merchant program that
might actually spice up furthermore this
whole food war and price wars uh that
we're seeing the food delivery space as
well. So that certainly seems to be a
bit a point of contention when it comes
to the tech space here this morning.
We're watching also property side of
things. Hibbor, we actually are starting
to see it perk up a little bit. We're
back to levels in one month hybr uh
since May after three intervention
attempts from HKMA. But we're not seeing
that much move in honky dollar of late.
Uh you take a look what it seems to be
the crypto stocks here as well. So we
talk about where Bitcoin is right now.
We're we're we're briefly off the
112,000 level there when it comes to
Bitcoin in the Asia session. But
certainly it there seems to be a lot of
optimism in some of these Bitcoin stocks
or crypto stocks as well. Boy up some 6%
and copper stocks as well perhaps might
be following what we're seeing in the
copper price here this morning. Uh and
certainly there's a lot of focus on
these traders really rushing to
stockpile or the like before that August
1 deadline, but you're seeing mostly
lower in some of these miners here
today, Bill.
Yeah, that's right. We were just talking
with Jill earlier about how traders are
trying to rush to get their deliveries
to places like Hawaii or or Puerto Rico
just to try and cut their shipment
times. But I think there's really two
different interesting trends today. Yes,
you've got the tariffs and you've also
got that involution uh trend as well to
watch in China and the market
implications we're seeing from that. But
let's get to the economic side and bring
in Joanna Tra. She's head of emerging
market economics at Cityroup Global
Markets. And and Joanna, I mean, how do
you wrap your head around what what's
going on? It's just every morning we've
got new letters that have been sent out,
new deadlines that are in place. What's
top of mind for you?
Well, obviously it's a good reminder to
us that people just when people thought
maybe we're past the peak tariff, these
things can keep coming up again. So,
obviously, we're watching very closely a
lot of the developments. I think the the
Vietnam framework agreement that came
out earlier I think was kind of
revealing in terms of sense that you
know 20% is kind of the benchmark for
those especially among South Southeast
Asian economies in which they compare
themselves and the fact that you have a
po 40% kind of trench shipment which we
see is really being targeted in terms of
China supply chain rerouting that
obviously kind of sets a floor on what I
think we expecting from an effective
tariff rate on China we still need to
know what exactly is the definition of
trans shipment is there going to be a
minimum value added content from China
so that's a question mark and then
obviously we got the letters. We got 14
letters on Tuesday or overnight on
Tuesday and then we got another round of
eight letters and I think look I think
Asia obviously still features very
heavily in the letters uh you know we've
got obviously Japan Korea and then we've
got all the Azan economies and then just
when you thought oh did they forget
Philippines we had Philippines added on
and even Brunai so let's just close the
loophole on Azan putting these
reciprocal tariffs for August 1st but
it's really interesting to see the
economies that are not on the list which
then raises a question uh of course
there's a two two swings either you're a
if you're a very large trading partner
and you're not in the list maybe you're
up for a framework agreement that's
going to come up relatively soon and
obviously people are looking at you know
EU for example or Switzerland but in you
know closer to home uh obviously we've
got India and Taiwan that are major
trading partners that could be up for a
framework agreement and then you look at
the others maybe either part of another
bucket which are small trading partners
what Scott Besson had mentioned about
you know a hundred letters where we
don't do a lot much trade and maybe you
get a baseline tariff of kind of 10%. So
you hope certain economies like you know
on on Tuesday we were hoping maybe Sri
Lanka would would get there but it looks
like Sri Lanka got a a letter overnight
of 30%. But Pakistan didn't get a
letter. So then the question is maybe
they get to the 100 bucket. So again we
don't know because we don't know if
there's going to be more letters to
come. But I think there's a bit of a
sigh of relief for those that haven't
gotten letters. What the fact that
you're seeing some tariff rates are
higher like Japan marginally speaking
but some mostly are unchanged some are
lower. It just goes to show how fluid
the situation is. But what does it tell
you about the motive behind
well a lot of it I think is just a bit
of a bucketing right so I mean if you
have too many new ones tariff in
particular it may be harder to enforce.
So it seems like he kind of rounded off
like you know Japan is not alone. Same
with Malaysia. So Japan Malaysia
originally had 24 they ended up at 25.
Korea was 25. So you kind of round it
off to a certain extent. Uh and then
again maybe there's a little bit of a
bucketing here and there. Uh
unfortunately for some you get rounded
up like Philippines went from 17 to 20
and some you get rounded down right.
Who gets hit the most? Who's the most
vulnerable in Asia you think right now?
Well well right now I think people are
watching very closely obviously some of
the AAN economies. So for example among
the trade exposed economy to US that
have relatively high tariff for example
Thailand. I mean Thailand is pretty open
economy. You're still at the 36%. you
you're going to have to see how you're
going to be able to ratchet that down to
like obviously closer to the Vietnam
tariff. So that's something we need to
watch out for. So I think and obviously
we've got others, you know, kind of
smaller economies. I mean Cambodia is
there and then you know the Lao stuff,
right?
What about sectoral tariffs and how do
those evolve as well,
right? So obviously we have the news on
the copper tariffs. So copper tariffs
again is not as big of an issue for
Asia. That's really more like Chile or
Peru. Uh and then we will see what
happens. But obviously for Asia what
really is res uh relevant is
semiconductor tariffs and pharmaceut
semiconductor obviously matters for
Malaysia and Taiwan relative to the size
of their economy. And then we're also
looking for pharmaceutical and
pharmaceutical at the margin within Asia
obviously matters a little bit more for
Singapore and to a lesser extent India
although I think you know we're still
you know hoping that there will be
carveouts for that and then of course
the big debate on sectoral tariffs is to
what extent the negotiation that Japan
and Korea will have are they going to be
able to get as kind of a similar deal to
what UK got on autos or not and I think
the bar is a bit hard for high for that
I think it's going to be quite difficult
and challenging
there's a a lot of debate about whether
these, you know, nations currencies are
being part of these trade negotiations,
but how does that frame your your sort
of outlook when it comes to the dollar
and Asia FX overall?
Look, I think obviously maybe they won't
really make it explicit, but it's it's
hard to imagine when, you know, when
Trump did put out his America first kind
of executive order back in February,
there was a mention of the currency.
Now, I don't know to what extent that
really is part of the negotiation, but
it could be part of the negotiation. H
and you know obviously that's something
that is relevant for economies that are
on the currency monitoring lists which
is particularly relevant in Asia like
for Taiwan or Korea. So that is
something we're watching obviously also
in Japan it's obviously something that
we're also watching very closely. I want
to get to you about inflation
expectations and actually we just had
some BOK lines coming out and they're
expecting CPI to remain around 2% on low
demand oil price stability and largely
they're the the 2025 outlook is in line
with expectations but I think more
broadly as well in the Fed meeting
minutes overnight there was that clear
read through that came across that Fed
officials are just like we don't know
what to do right now and we don't know
what it means for inflation expectations
moving forward. No, no, absolutely. And
obviously the the impact on inflation in
the US is very different from the impact
on inflation for the rest of the world
where in US it's more cost push
inflation like a supply side shock and
then the debate is you know how large is
that? Is it a one-off? Is it sustained
inflation? And then obviously for the
rest of Asia it's the opposite. You know
how much of this this is a demand shock
that is disinflationary and is it
meaningful enough to move the needle for
central bank policy? And I have to say I
mean look you know we just had bank
naggara cut rates 25 basis points. I
would say at the margin with the kind of
revival of the trade policy uncertainty,
you know, at the margin it may air on
towards a more accommodative policy
stance. This is something we need to
watch out for. Korea is a little bit
more complicated because there are other
dynamics that have happened including
what's happening to housing prices and
needing to see uh kind of the latest
round of macrocredential policies before
BOK uh cuts. But you know just give you
an example after that tariff letters
came out uh on Tuesday the first round
of tariff letters uh we actually put out
a note on Indonesia because again we
actually thinking because of this
negative headwind on sentiment uh it
probably we reaffirmed our view that you
know although BI paused in June because
of the Middle East noise and the
concerns about external shock and oil we
probably think BI will resume and cut
again in July. I'm thinking longer term
though. H how you know given how high
these tariff rates seem to be still. Is
it sustainable in the longer term and
what does it mean for global growth
moving forward?
I mean a lot of this is obviously
depending on what Trump really is is
what's the willingness of Trump and you
know obviously what's the pain pressure
point and bargaining.
I mean obviously some of this is clearly
in the hope that it's bargaining and
we're waiting for that on August 1st.
But the question is, you know, I think
because you had the Vietnam deal at 20
and then you had the UK which runs a
trade deficit with the US at 10. Then
the question is what what what where are
we in the range of bargaining? How much
room do we have? And I think for some of
the other economies like the South
Southeast Asia, it's not a if you have a
if you're running a surplus with the US,
you may not really get to 10. I mean,
maybe the best you can get is maybe, you
know, hopefully better than the Vietnam
deal. And that's that's the debate.
Yeah. Uh I think we both want to ask
about the same thing of and I but
involution it's it's really we've seen
it been an issue in China for a long
time but but certainly we're getting a
lot more um warnings on this right now
and you're seeing it reflected in in
JD's price for instance today the stocks
down 2 and a half% I mean there's a lot
of concern here about that race to the
bottom what do we see in terms of
reforms from China moving forward do you
think
I mean these are obviously I mean this
is a challenge even for the rest of the
region and competing manufacturing
exporters uh you know look obviously
We're waiting for some signs on supply
side. I mean, there's a lot of talk
about supply side reform. What exactly
does this mean? Are we going to talk
more about, you know, things related to
like steel or cement or kind of
traditional commodities? Are we going to
go further down the supply chain? But
then, you know, it's it's a bit of a
balancing act, right? Because at the
same time, you know, any kind of supply
side cut does have a growth impact. And
then you do also want to allow private
sector, you know, how much intervention
will you do in terms of the operation of
the private sector. So, this is
something to watch. Uh I mean obviously
it would be it would it would be good to
put a floor on some of the deflationary
pressures. Uh and that's also has a lot
of spillovers for the rest of I mean
it's positive and negative. It adds to
kind of the disinflationary pressures
but if you it also puts a lot of
pressure on competing manufacturing
exporters.
Johanna, it's always good to have you
Johanna there head of emerging market
economics at Croup Global Markets. And
still ahead on the China show we got a
big interview to tell you about. Yeah,
they're one of the six gongs that were
that were hit yesterday here. Geek
Palas. We're talking to the VP of
international business here about this
listing, their expansion plans, of
course, following that successful
trading debut here in the city. That
exclusive interview coming up in the
next hour.
And we have another weather alert for
you because we we mentioned coming into
this blog about how we had yellow rain.
That has been upgraded to red rain
warning. And I mean, look, I don't know
if we we need to show this camera. It's
not amber anymore, guys. We're really
proving that it's raining right now.
It's a red raining that we've got, but
uh we'll have plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Well, Malaysia's Prime Minister Amwa
Ibrahim will make an appeal for lower
terrorists when he meets with US
Secretary of State Marco Rubio today in
Koala Lumpur. Of course, we're tracking
this Azan summit and our very own Mimman
Lo joins us there from the meeting venue
and Mman, I understand there is a
meeting underway this hour. Tell us a
bit more what's going on right now.
Yes, we just saw Wangi heading into the
meeting room with AAN foreign ministers
about 40 minutes ago. I did ask him if
he's going to be meeting with Marco
Rubio today, but he didn't answer the
question. But as you said that meeting
underway and the Malaysian foreign
minister gave the opening remarks and he
made a nod to geopolitical tensions and
the security issues in the South China
Sea urging all parties including China
and Azan countries to come up with a
code of conduct in the South China Sea.
Now this is something the countries have
been working towards for a long time but
have been seeing very little progress.
The Malaysian foreign minister also
mentioned the threats to a free and open
economy. And to that end, ASEAN and
China will be looking to sign an
upgraded free trade agreement later in
the year. Of course, Marco Rubio, we
also saw him entering the convention
center not too long ago. He has a packed
schedule. He is going to be meeting with
the foreign ministers of Japan, the
Philippines, as well as Russia. That
meeting with Sergey Lavrov potentially
going to be very important because it
comes as Russia has been pounding
Ukrainian cities with a record number of
drones and missiles. President Trump has
expressed his displeasure. He said he
will be looking seriously at a bill
introduced by the Senate to sanction
Russia as well as countries that buy
Russian LG oil and petroleum products.
Of course, who's the biggest buyer?
China is one major buyer. So, this could
potentially impact US China relations.
Notably missing from Marco Rubio's
itinerary now is a meeting with Foreign
Minister Wangi. But I wouldn't rule it
out because things could still change
along the way. So, we'll see whether or
not the two men take this opportunity to
meet face to face to discuss potentially
that trip by President Trump to China at
some point later this year. We know the
US administration has already been
gauging interest from businessmen about
potentially accompanying President Trump
on that trip. We also know Scott Besson
has said he intends to meet with his
Chinese counterparts in the coming weeks
to kick off kick off a larger round of
trade discussion. Again, the two men had
the chance to meet at the sidelines of a
UN Security Council meeting in February,
but they didn't take that opportunity.
Will they actually meet this meet this
time? It will tell us a lot more about
the state of US China relations. Now,
that was our China correspondent Mim Lo
there in Koala Lumpur and we'll be back
with you in the next hour as well. Uh
getting now to the reaction from
Bloomberg economics as well to all of
the tariff headlines and uh the the
economists there think that China's
exports will remain at a significant
disadvantage in the US market even if
higher tariffs on rival trading partners
kick on kick in rather on August 1st as
scheduled. Our China Asia economist
Chung Shu is with us. So h talk to us
about the sort of second order
implications because it's not just
tariffs that are going to be levied on
China's major trading partners. also how
that feeds in to the mainland economy.
Yeah. Um so China this round uh is is
also affected indirectly even if and
China's deadline uh for tariff pause for
higher tariffs is not up for review. Um
if uh as planned or or as notified by
those countries the reciprocal tariffs
uh were to go up in uh on August the
1st. the the difference between China's
tariff hit
with the rest of the uh world uh would
be narrower that at the margin would
increase or or or rather uh shows a
narrower
uh competitive kind of dis advantage for
China. But it's not very clear a whether
those higher tariffs will go ahead and
and if that tariff um orientation will
go ahead how long it would last. So if
we take the example um of Japan and
Korea, they were notified 25 uh percent
tariff um reciprocal tariffs uh rising
from the current 10% and um based on our
calculation if you remove exemptions etc
the hike um for those two countries this
year will be around 20% or so slightly
higher but China says 30%. So, so still
even for this year's shock is is
something like over 5% easily over 5
percentage higher uh for China. So, so
so uh that that means China is at a dis
advantage still.
So, at a disadvantage, we're still
getting close, I guess, to this 90-day
truce with the US August 12th, which is
days after this August 1st sort of
implementation with everybody else. How
does this all play out, do you think?
What's your what's the base case now?
Yeah, absolutely. A lot of
uncertainties. Our base case may be over
the longer term at the end of un some
sort of undefinite uh horizon or or some
sort of violent terrorism. Further down
the road, we could see potentially China
could face tariffs similar to what it is
now. the composition could be different
but but maybe China will face around 40%
um tariffs in the US um and uh um it
could be somehow the reciprocal tariffs
could be slightly higher but functional
related tariffs could be lower um but
there could be bumps along the road it
could be you know after this um 90-day
truth the uh the tariff could go back up
um a bit more So lot of uncertainties.
Our baseline is uh uh it is more or less
similar to now sort of over a rather
sort of in terms of endgame potentially.
Changu, thank you. Our blueber economics
chief Asia economist there and some
other headlines around the world this
morning. Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang is
reportedly expected to meet with top
Chinese leaders in Beijing next week.
According to the Financial Times, that
could happen when he attends the
international supply chain expo starting
on Wednesday. The report says Hang is
seeking talks with China's Premier Lee
Chang and could also meet with the vice
premier Halif. Taiwan is holding its
biggest annual military drills ever as
President Ling does emphasize his
readiness against a potential Chinese
attack. The 10-day exercises are double
the usual length and will call up a
record 20,000 reserveists. E even
civilians are getting involved with
local governments testing essential
services and a supermarket chain using
basement for air raid shelters. A South
Korean court has approved the new arrest
of former President Yunyo on charges
tied to his declaration last year of
martial law. The court accepted a
special prosecutor's claim that Yun
poses a risk of destroying evidence. Yun
appeared in court Wednesday for a
hearing reviewing the request. He was
then taken to a detention center to
await the ruling. Plenty more ahead. And
this is Wilmouth.
[Music]
All right, checking movers here this
morning. We're facing some of the liquor
stocks here right now. Well, we've been
talking a little bit more about uh
Goldman Sachs cutting the likes of Gu
Jing to sell Lujo to neutral. There's
been some austerity policies in that
space as well. So, Anway is down about
1.3% here this morning. Sunny Optical
getting an upgrade from Morgan Stanley.
So, they're upgrading the stock to
overweight. Uh that stock now rises to a
twomonth high. So, they're talking about
the electronic compos makers uh overall
expectations of a new growth cycle
driven by new product launches in its
smartphone and new business decisions
there. So the Apple supplier getting an
upgrade here today. And we're watching
these rare earth stocks. So Northern
rare earth reports a first half pro
profit increase there in the prelim
numbers. So that's certainly uh helping
the stock be gaining about 6% as well.
Uh there's a lot more talk about what
happens when it comes to these markets.
We thought Nvidia would actually help
the likes of of HStech. It's not today.
We're slightly on offer here when HStech
here today.
Yeah, I think it's that other sort of
bigger trend that's also sort of
overwhelming that positive sentiment
from from Nvidia. We're talking here
about Involution. We're talking about
the warnings particularly for the food
delivery market because you've seen
really big offers from JD Mtoan and also
Alibaba to try and compete in this
space. But government officials through
local media are saying there's really no
winners in price wars but that does seem
to be sort of driving sentiment. We are
seeing though broadly equities are sort
of lifting off their lows of the day. Uh
even though we did have President Trump
but issuing more tariff news. We've got
the deadline now for copper. That's
August one. More ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Yeah. Welcome back to the chart show.
Here's a look at the CSI 300 a half hour
into the session. So, we're pretty flat
right now. We're getting closer or at
least near those 2025 highs, but
certainly we didn't quite meet that
milestone yesterday here. Uh Hong Kong,
we don't even want to show you what it
looks like a picture there. It's it's a
red rainstorm here in the city. But yes,
when you take a look at how MSEI China
is doing, it's pretty slow going here
this morning, Bell, because you know,
despite all what we're seeing uh when it
comes to these tariff headlines, Nvidia
reaching a $4 trillion market cap, you
know, I think for now there's a still a
lot of wait and see going on.
Yeah. And we've had those tariff
headlines around copper specifically in
the last hour or so, just over an hour,
announcing the 50% tariff on copper
effective August 1. uh and there has
been sort of immediate reaction to that
not just in the copper contracts where
you've seen the COMX one sort of spiking
a little bit uh we've seen the LME one
kind of trading fairly steady but we
have seen US equity futures retreating
and the dollar as well a little bit
softer off that and so that sort of has
been one of the major dynamics for the
session today even though we did have a
lot of positive news overnight uh with
with that continued rally but be be okay
of course to watch this morning uh given
that we just had the Bank of Korea
coming out another central bank that's
decided to stamp out this week. BK, RBA,
RBNZ as well. All of those just keeping
their key rates steady. But the BOK is
saying that they just need more time to
understand uh really what their latest
cut means to the housing market. And
they're also saying that inflation is
largely in line with expectations.
What's interesting as well, you can see
some of those Nvidia suppliers here
moving to the upside. And that was
another big dynamic overnight. $4
trillion,
the new market cap for Nvidia. first
company to ever reach that sort of
milestone here and certainly what a
strong rebound we've seen in the stock
right you you certainly saw it being
hammered after the deepsek sort of
moment uh the the threat of US tariffs
and the like and we're now talking about
this 21% gain in the stock uh in this
year alone and what since 2023 I mean
that chart is just explosive right we're
talking about 1,000%
increase in the stock so this AI rally
lives on
yeah and that's what we were talking
about in the last hour with BMP P just
about how even with the trade
uncertainty, even with the tensions
between the US and China, you still do
have that sort of longerterm trend for
AI that remains very much intact and
that demand is still there. It is
interesting though because again
overnight some of the key things we're
watching were the Fed meeting minutes
and and this was
this really also just showed us just how
much uncertainty there is and how much
even officials really can't come to to
to an agreement here just because
there's so many unknowns. the divided
when it comes to what the tariff impact
on inflation, right? Is it just a
one-off sort of increase? Was it due for
inflation expectations? So that that
growing divide among the Fed is is
something that is really emerging now
among the committee and certainly maybe
uh what does that mean for Fed
expectations, right? I think we've
already pushed back the expectation of
July to maybe further back this year as
well as many of these central banks as
Bill mentioned seem to be now waiting
and seeing to see what this tariff
uncertainty brings. Uh but certainly
there's a lot to talk about as well,
right? When you're talking about copper
tariffs, that's the latest there. Brazil
starting to get hammered overnight as
well. We saw that, you know, big move in
the in the realale overnight. It seems
like still a lot of headlines, but
markets are for the most part, they're
saying, you know, I'm just going to
forget this right now and fade it.
Yeah. Well, again, we've seen sort of
quite sensitive though to to what's
going on. Let's bring in Christian
Noling, global CIO at Deutsche Bank,
private bank. And Christian, as Avon was
saying there, you know, we've got
traders that seem to kind of be looking
past tariff headlines to a degree and we
have seen some optimis optimism, but
still there's a lot of concern that we
see reflected around fiscal expansion,
what the what the central bank is going
to do, who's going to get these letters
next, where trade agreements are going
to go. Uh what are you what's top of
mind for you this morning?
Yeah, I I think it's not a surprise to
be very honest that you see tariffs
being negotiated that you see not only
trade tariffs, I think President Trump
talked about secondary tariffs as well.
Now you have other tariffs coming in
place. So I think uncertainty is certain
on that page. Uh but I think you look at
markets right so don't always very bad
on this. I think markets are very
rational and they decide okay who's
impacted by tariffs and who could be a
winner. So if you see productivity
growth, if you see technology coming in,
I think that's a very positive
development. So you need to always take
the decision is sometimes negative news.
But what's the implications then for
markets and that could be sometimes even
a positive one.
There seems to be a lot more of you know
chatter about US markets coming back to
life in some way as we hit close to
records. What is positioning telling you
so far Christian?
So I I think positioning as I said right
markets are very rational positioning
very where those technology has really
come back after beginning of April
because the markets would say where do I
see still productivity gains and that's
coming from the technology side if you
look at other sectors I think banks are
doing very well which is reflecting a
little bit this higher for longer so
look at 10 year yields they have not
massively changed they're even a bit
higher than beginning of April because
of inflation coming in and we still
think there is inflation coming up
especially in the US especially in this
quarter and then if you look at markets
for example on cars automoils they're
probably hit by tariffs and their
expectations are lower so the market is
really differentiating and that's why
it's important for investment strategy
to say okay who is impacted negatively
and who can be positive because of
growth and I think that's key also in
the next month
yeah I think your expectation is for
inflation to go above ove 3% this
quarter in the US. So what does that
mean in terms of the Fed easing cycle
and and also for the dollar in turn?
So yeah, we do think that's the case
especially for Q3 and we do think then
it's coming down. Why is that the case?
First we think tariffs are inflationy
but also there's a base effect from last
year coming in something you should not
like next. So looking at this that can
happen 3% plus in Q3 for the Fed I think
what they are saying right they need to
wait and see they see the data as well
they need to wait and see what the
impact from tariffs is what's the base
effect impact and we do not expect the
cut this month we rather go for a cut
then probably in September uh rather
September than October so we do think
the Fed will cut because growth is also
not super strong in the US but uh first
you see that peak in inflation and then
for them it's not so easy to cut in that
environment later. I think it will come.
There's so much volatility in the FX
space, you know, given your dollar view.
I mean, the euro is on an absolute tear.
Christian, we're talking about 117
levels against the dollar. How strong do
you think the euro can can really rise
from here given that it seems like there
is this sort of baseline or base view of
of 10% tariffs in place from Trump?
Yeah, it might be even a bit higher at
to the EU I think at least for start of
negotiations but there might be some
sectors excluded excluded. So you need
to eventually look at the effective tar
rate if you call we've seen as you say
euro dollar right we've seen quite a
move 102 to even 118 so the massive uh
strengthening of the euro it was more
weakening of the dollar from my point of
view we think that trend could probably
continue but not at the same speed
because uh at one point in time it also
starts the to hurt the European economy
which is very exportdriven and if you
have a dollar declining too fast that's
also importing more inflation to the So
I think both sides would not be
interested to get a substantially weaker
currency from here. But I think the
trend to slide further downside is still
there because we do see still money
flows coming out of this and probably
into Europe as well.
But given that amount of volatility,
do you need to actually change any of
your FX hedges or your hedging strategy
then in turn?
No, not necessarily from from our point
of view. I think that was a bit expected
that this is happening. So we don't need
to change anything from that
perspective. Um for we are very well
positioned. We have really looked at
sectors not only at regional aspects and
so from that perspective I think we need
to rethink a little bit the euro view in
case the euro would get much stronger
from here. That's not our expectation.
But if we were to see that I think that
could hurt a bit on the European equity
side and that outperformance we have
been seeing especially in the first
quarter not so much in the second
quarter but as I said right the super
strong currency would be probably a bit
more negative for Europe and then if
that's happening we would need to change
course a little bit on this not our base
case but certainly risk case to that
uh Christian I got to get your take on
what's going on in long rates right the
volatility that we're seeing we've seen
in Japan in the us as we start to see
investors really demand more
compensation in some of these more
riskier assets here right now. Do you
think this is sort of the new norm that
we're seeing on the yield curve right
now?
Yeah, I think for quite some time we've
seen sometimes higher volatility on the
bond side than on the equity side which
is not quite usual. I think that could
stay because there's at this point in
time quite some uncertainty what's
happening with the central banks where
you just showed the chart. Even the Fed
is a bit divided on the inflation view.
So uh if you have clear views from the
central banks that should bring down
volatility also on the bond side is not
the case at this point in time. So I
would expect volatility especially on
the bond side to stay higher until
really we know about the inflation
picture. We have a clear view on this
one. But I would say that's why don't
expect too many cuts, some from the Fed,
maybe even less from the ECB if you talk
Euro dollar because the stronger
currency is bringing down inflation as
well. But as as you said rightly, I
think volatility would stay quite high
on the bond side. I think volatility on
the equity side has really come down.
It's probably a bit too complacent for
markets. I would expect this quarter
also some more volatility on the equity
side, but that's also then bound to
earnings of course which are kicking in
from next week onwards.
Just on on the bond side though, because
we do have that really important or
pivotal Japanese 20-year debt auction
coming up later today, if we do see that
demand come in weak, what does it also
tell you about the implications for for
other teners? And I'm thinking
specifically about the 10-year one.
Yeah. Yeah. So there's a lot of focus uh
on markets now in all these auctions.
Japan of course is one, UK is one and of
course you always look very closely also
now to what's happening with US
treasuries especially as you rightly say
right the longer maturities 10 year
onwards 30 years so uh the market is
clearly focusing this is there enough
demand I think we had some auctions
which were a bit weak but some auctions
a bit stronger so that's why you watch
it and that's I think is as you right
you say a source for volatility so if
you see weaker auctions that could mean
volatility is going higher and probably
yields of course going a bit higher from
that perspective and I think that's a
bit our view right we do think higher
for longer and that's why for example
for 10ear treasuries we would expect
them to be in one year's time at 450 not
massively but slightly higher from where
we are right now that's one driver of
this from our point of view
Christian as we kick off this second
half what do you think is going to be
the biggest risk overall I mean what
could actually go wrong for the next few
weeks and months
well Treasury auctions, bond auctions.
If that's some weekly money that could
cause some bond volatility as we said, I
I think on earnings I'm rather not so
concerned because the market is very
rational. Earnings expectation are not
very high but of course if some
companies miss that would miss that that
could cause some volatility. Um I think
that's something to take into account.
Uh otherwise the debt sustainability is
always a topic which is important to us.
there's a lot of fiscal spending going
on and if the market says that's
probably too much that could cause
volatility. We've just seen that in the
UK. So that's some risk factors we
really take into account on on the
especially Q3.
Christian it's great to have you on.
Christian Noling there global CIO at
Deutsche Bank Private Bank. We got
plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
We never had anybody in the White House
that understood the numbers or were into
it like I have. You know, we've taken in
hundreds of billions of dollars in
tariffs, hundreds of billions,
and we haven't even started yet. And
it's going to be a great thing for our
country. I think it's going to be a fair
thing for the world. And we really
haven't had too many complaints.
President Trump there on his latest
thoughts about his tariff strategy as we
kind of countdown and look at what's the
latest, right? First, it was lapping 50%
levy on copper imports. that says to go
in effect in August 1st. We also have
Brazil to deal with as well, Philippines
overnight. Let's bring in Jill Dus with
an up-to-date sort of pulse check on
what's really going on so far.
Yeah, I think um at this point, Yvon, uh
what you just highlighted are really the
latest in the slew of tariff
announcements, although Trump has said
that. I think he's planning to announce
that he said at least seven more
tomorrow. So that's Wednesday or
Thursday US. It's just it keeps going.
Um but um the latest when it comes to
copper. So we've got this 50% tariff on
copper that Trump's announced. August
1st is when this is supposed to go into
effect. Um again just so many unanswered
questions about what exactly this means.
We do know that uh you know Trump has
been telegraphing for several months now
that copper was going to be a target.
He's uh really keen on sort of boosting
uh domestic uh sort of domestic copper
trade. Um the US though is of course
highly reliant on um on on imports. Um,
what we don't know though is exactly
which types of copper are going to be
covered under this uh specific tariff
plan. We don't know if there's going to
be exemptions for anything. We don't
know if there's going to be exemptions
for copper that's currently um on the
water being shipped to the United
States. A lot of uh uh shipments have
kind of tried to speed up uh you know
sort of uh shipments to the United
States. We know that traders are trying
to get things into uh Hawaii, into
Puerto Rico to try to avoid this August
1 deadline. But again, I mean, what
we've seen in the past when um you know,
tariffs have gone into effect on steel
and aluminum is we've actually seen uh
you know, the United States apply some
exemptions for stuff that was already in
transit. Don't know if that's the case
here. Um but at least when it comes to
that commodity, um obviously again still
somewhat questions there. And then yes,
I mean Brazil um you know first of all
uh really the the first nation that
we've seen brought up here where it's
actually has a trading deficit with the
United States rather than surpluses
which was you know initially the target
uh that Trump was um you know going
after when he announced all of his
liberation tariffs uh day tariffs
earlier this year. Um but that again
does seem to be at least somewhat
politically motivated. He cited this
trial against the former Brazilian
leader Bolsinaro um is as kind of an
impetus here. Um but yeah, I think it
just really goes to show you there's a
lot still kind of playing around here
and I'm sure a lot more to come
and we're seeing those impacts as well
that that the countries are really
referencing. I mean we can take for
instance go to Seoul right now and take
a look at the BOK briefing that's just
started because we had the decision
earlier this today and officials
electing ultimately to keep the key rate
on hold but importantly the governor
here is saying that that I mean yes the
decision was unanimous but that that
global tariff talks are going to be
having an impact on growth. So what do
we know about sort of the the the
broader impact from this but also how
the negotiations are progressing in the
background?
Well, I think at this point belating
with the United States and I mean to
their credit, Trump just a couple of
days ago when uh you know that August
one uh deadline was announced for these
tariffs actually going into effect. He
did indicate at the time that you know
maybe that deadline was firm but not
100% firm. there was still room to
negotiate and I think um you know a lot
of countries have sort of taken that to
mean that even if you get one of these
letters there's still at least a few
weeks to try to you know figure out
something maybe there's an additional
delay in place obviously Trump has kind
of gone back and forth on that a bit um
and has changed his tune just over the
past 48 hours or so but we are seeing
that um you know with the Philippines
for example so they were slept with a
20% tariff in one of these letters
they've actually said they're they're
planning on holding further negotiations
now um so when it comes to some of these
places I mean South Korea you and you
know make the same argument. Japan which
received a letter earlier this week. So
at least when it comes to you know some
of these deadlines there's a lot of
uncertainty over whether or not like you
know if you've got a pretty good
relationship going with the United
States if you've got some indication
that maybe there's some headway to be
made there. I don't really think that
we're seeing a lot of nations um you
know just say okay like we'll just sit
back and accept um you know whatever is
written in these letters. It does still
seem like there's at least um you know
some reason to believe that maybe
there's additional room to continue
negotiating. I'd also point out that
even in the cases of of countries where
they do they they've reached agreements
like the UK earlier this summer I mean
there's still a lot of open questions
about um you know various other aspects
of that trade agreement steel for
example I mean so there's again like
just because you've got a letter in
front of you if you're one of these
countries it does seem like there's
still some room for talks
all right that was that Bloomberg editor
Jill D is there keeping across all these
fastmoving trade headlines this morning
for us but just going back to that BOK
press underway in Soul right now because
we're getting more headlines or lines
crossing from Governor Re talking about
this decision that uh that the to hold
the key rate steady rather. So he's
saying that that decision was unanimous.
He does say though that there is a need
to maintain an easing policy. So still
doubbish in in in his commentary there.
But he is also saying that that
essentially financial imbalances have
increased greatly and also global
tariffs are going to be having an impact
on growth. So, we've seen that really
across the course of this week, just how
many central bankers are grappling with
with President Trump's decisions.
Yeah. And the consensus seems to be this
is still just a pause in this easing
cycle, right? Um, you know, they've
already cut twice already this year. It
seems like there's still expectation
they may be able to cut next month and
August according to some economists that
we've spoken to as well. But yes, this
was a unanimous decision at least for
now. Uh, it's not just the external
threats, but they also talk about
financial stability. The liking we're
seeing in the housing sector was a key
sort of risk that they were looking at
as well and why they decided to hold off
for now. But the Cosby seems to be
liking that news, right? We're continue
to see uh recession highs there for that
benchmark. We're up some 1%. Plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Taking you back to this BK press of this
morning in Soul and we're getting more
lines from Governor Re. He's saying that
yes, they decided to hold rates steady
today, but four of six members open to a
cut in the next 3 months. So there's
still that easing policy in place. This
is just sensibly a pause for now. It is
still though that big question of how to
manage or or guide around inflation
expectations. And on that note actually
that the head of the White House
economic advisory council says there's
no evidence that President Trump's
tariffs are inflationary. And Steven
Moran told us that the uncertainty
surrounding tariffs will give the US
leverage to make better trade deals.
I do see the uncertainty starting to
reduce in the near term. Uh you know
part of the part of the benefit of
uncertainty is it gives us leverage in
negotiations, right? like the president
knows how to extract concessions from
our trading partners and he has been
very successfully doing so. Now, as what
you've seen with a number of these
letters is there's some countries that
haven't made the concessions that that
that the United States requires and as a
result of the decades of accumulated
trade deficits, the president has
decided that uh you know tariff rates
should should ratchet back up for those
countries on effective August 1st and
and I expect that to happen.
I want to talk more about the sectoral
tariffs section 232. You look at copper
just over the last 24 hours in the price
increase you've seen in copper alone.
This is a critical input for data
centers, for power grids, for industrial
machinery. And as the administration
looks to bring more manufacturing on
shore, how isn't it the case that a 50%
tariff would impact some of those other
efforts to otherwise power the economy?
So, you have to differentiate between
changes in relative prices and changes
in the general price level. And when you
target a specific good with a tariff
like copper or or or or some other
specific good, you're going to get
relative price changes. And that that's
that's totally expected. But that
doesn't mean that there's an increase in
the general price level by which we mean
inflation because there are lots of, you
know, thousands of products and services
that go into the general price level.
And it's an average a weighted average
across all of those. And we just
published research yesterday showing
that there has been no tariff induced
inflation in the in a general price
level since uh since the tariffs began
being implemented in January. Quite to
the contrary of all of the all of the
Cassandra that were shouting that it was
going to be extremely extremely
inflationary. There's just no evidence
of that thus far just like in 2018 2019.
Yeah.
Listen, I read the research and we'll
get back to it, but on copper I want to
read this note from Jeff. They say that
the US does not have nearly enough mind
melter refinery capacity to be
self-sufficient in copper. So then why
target it?
Well, we need more of it. We need more
of it produced domestically. You know
there are certain critical minerals of
which copper is one that you just
absolutely need if you're going to have
manufacturing sector and and having a
manufacturing sector is important not
just economically because it tends to be
a high high capital high productivity
field with uh you know good paying jobs
but also for national security. You
cannot defend yourselves if you do not
have a robust manufacturing sector and
critical minerals like copper are
essential to that. So will we be able
will we be able to corner a market in
copper? Absolutely not. But can we make
more than we currently do? Yes.
That was the US Council of Economic
Advisors Chairman Steve Moran speaking
with Bloomberg Shanali Basik. And we are
just getting some lines crossing now
from from Elon Musk on X and he's
talking about this Grock model and and
the the inappropriate posts essentially
that that were came out overnight. So
this has really caused a fur and and
certainly is something that a lot of
people are tracking really closely. But
he is saying that they will be needing
to to improve their image training here.
And the question or the the concern is
that essentially this chatbot shared
multiple anti-semitic comments.
Yeah, that that was on the backdrop of
what we just heard overnight with the ex
CEO Linda Yakarino stepping down.
Reports say that it wasn't because of
what happened in Grog, but certainly you
know what she's got to deal with the
last two years when it comes to trying
to keep advertisers on the platform.
also managing Musk as well. You know,
some were saying, you know, this was
probably pretty inevitable, her
departure as well.
Yeah, actually, I think I read one
comment that said, you know, she lasted
at least two years and that was longer
than many people could have actually
expected. But still on that tech front,
we've got a really big interview coming
up in a few minutes. Geek Plus talking
about their expansion plans after their
trading debut in Hong Kong just
yesterday. More ahead.
[Music]
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are heading to that lunch break here
right now. Seeing a bit of pressure when
it comes to equities here this morning.
Perhaps that stronger yen has something
to do with it as well. We're approaching
146 levels as well. But also, there's a
bit of angst in the long end of the JGB
curve, right? That 20-year bond auction
is happening later on today. We'll see
how the demand picture looks in the next
hour as well. But given just what we've
been seeing, the volatility and the sell
off in the long end of the curve
globally, not just in in Japan, but also
in the US, we'll see if there's any sort
of demand that does does get impacted so
far just given all these fiscal concerns
around the world.
Yeah. And if it is weak at at the longer
end, what does that also mean for the
benchmark 10-year rate as well? And will
we see any sort of second order
implications there? But let's also take
a look broadly in the market session
today. Uh because it's been a pretty
interesting session. We came into the
open this morning and and we were riding
off those the cattails essentially of
the US overnight. Lots of optimism
around Nvidia for instance hitting $4
trillion for the first time ever. Today
in the session though again we had those
tariff headlines. President Trump
specifically nominating the date now for
these copper tariffs to take effect.
That's August 1. And we've seen a bit of
a retreat in the dollar. We've seen a
bit of a retreat in US futures in turn.
We are seeing Asian equities though
moving here to the upside a little bit.
uh keeping a big watch on the tech
sector in particular given as you said
around Nvidia but also some big listings
yesterday in the session.
Yeah, the the record amount of listings
we saw in one day, right? Those six
gongs on stage really goes to show that
Hong Kong in some ways has regained that
mojo on the IPO front as well. Geek Plus
was one of those six on stage here when
that stock is up another 5% here today.
So, in total, we're seeing 10% gains on
Geek Plus. If you don't know who they
are, uh they are one of those warehouse
robotic companies as well. And certainly
a lot of questions that we have to ask
here uh to the vice president of
international business of Geek Plus, Lit
Fong joining us here. Lit, thank you so
much for joining us. What a time to be
debuting your your stock publicly at a
time when Hong Kong seems to be coming
back in a big way.
Tell us a bit more about the timing of
this listing for you. Why now? And what
are you going to do with the proceeds? I
think this is like a uh uh quite good
timing, you know, let's say in Hong
Kong, you know, this is also our our
plan, you know, from more than a few
years, you know, and um catching the the
financial uh uh economics benefit in
Hong Kong as well as like we are the
Chinese company, you know, Hong Kong is
like the the best pace to list it here
and to to facing the international
market as as well as we uh Hong Kong is
the the first our international office
uh established in Hong Kong since 2017.
You're already used by a lot of
different major companies worldwide and
that includes in the US in in in Europe
as well. What are you planning to do
though with these proceeds and what's
next for the business? I think probably
of course we we should u penetrate in
the market and also replicate all of our
existing customer in order like uh to to
bringing them to to have a more valuable
uh solution for them especially like
most of the country or most of the
customer facing the uh scarcity of the
labor you know shortage of labor right
how we can um enhance their warehouse
operation u by by the high demanding of
the supply chain and also the order
fulfillment
where do you see the the most I
place where you have the most potential
in the markets that you operate here
right now and does the tariff threats in
any way in those nations impact how you
do business?
I think tariff is a like um bringing us
a opportunity
um is a good challenge for us. Um um
well I think we we already having some
some warehouse across the globe you know
we have different warehouse we have the
inventory I think uh we can suffer on on
that uh for the local uh customer and
for the for the midterm or long term of
course we we we are also having some um
manufacturing um deployment you know in
in other region you know since like the
four five years ago we are having like
automated warehouse uh manufacturing hop
you know in in China uh that when we are
ready to to replicate in in anywhere you
know easily you know in in other
country. Yeah.
You mentioned about how you can see
tariffs as a good opportunity but what
does it actually mean for your bottom
line and do you need to increase the
cost of your products for your
consumers?
Um no we we don't we didn't have any
ideas on on the pricing yet you know
because you know the tariff is like
still um high up you know. So um uh I
would say like uh we uh we still
suffering the all of the inventory
locally. We we are already deploying a
lot of warehouse uh in US in Europe in
other region. So we still have an
inventory to to solve this for the for
the short term you know for mid and long
term. Of course we we are easily to
deploy any manufacturing hub in in
anywhere you know to u to minimize the
the problem of the tariff. Humanoids are
are a really big topic right now and
this is a very competitive space in
China as well. But is that an is that a
business line that you'd be looking to
explore?
Yes, of course. You know, we are a um um
robotic company um AIdriven company, you
know. So, AI robotic humanoid is the hot
topics right now. You know, humanoid is
one of our um uh consideration road map
for our innovation team.
Is it is it early stages right now? Is
is there developments being made around
humanoid? Um I think uh it's like a
early stage still in the early stage
right um so we are we are considering we
are thinking about how we can um uh
utilize the humanoid together with our
existing portfolio you know
and what are the challenges for you when
it comes to humanoids is it is it on the
hardware is it on the software side what
would what would be the biggest obstacle
to overcome do you think
I think the um not the obstacle I think
well we should well well study uh for
for market as well as like the
application is much more important
rather than the hardware and software.
Yeah. Well, that's I guess a thing
because the the the companies that I
speak to in the humanoid space in China,
they sort of all have a shared goal.
Yes. There's the factory side, but also
you want to get to that point that
you're moving into households.
Yes.
Factories seem to be first though. Is
that right?
I think. Yeah. Warehousing, you know,
warehousing is should be our higher
priority. Yeah.
Mhm. What about on the the AI side and
more on the software side? How are you
going about improving your models there
and and what are the sort of signposts
or or goals for you over over the coming
years?
Yeah. Um yeah AI I think is this is one
of the um u the weapon for for for the
customer you know how we can optimize
the warehouse you know we are talking
about more than hundreds or almost like
a thousand robot running at the same
place right how we can optimize how we
can utilize those robot running at the
same warehouse uh by different demanding
different uh order profile that I think
AI is like a one of the um um I would
say like a algorithm you know AI
algorithm is helping for for the
customer to optimize that warehouse by
their demanding you know
what what sectors do you think are
seeing the most growth potential here
right now obviously you focus on the the
e-commerce space I'm just wondering you
know what other sectors are actually
seeing this need for warehouse robots
um I think um that's like a many
industry you know no matter like a
retail grocery you know e-commerce um
they're they're getting a more high
demanding or high expectation from the
customer consumer you know um response
time delivery time you know so Um um
yeah so uh I think yeah um yeah most of
the industry like like they will they
will choose the the automation for the
robotic to have in their warehouse.
Whi- which which area then or which
country which market represents the
biggest growth opportunity.
Um yeah I think of of course you know
for for first year country you know
matter in America uh Europe and Asia we
already cover um more than 40 country
right now. So uh and together we are
looking at like a South America is like
a high growth uh uh region that we are
seeing uh Middle East as well you know.
Yeah.
All right. Well lit thank you very much
for joining us this morning.
Congratulations on the debut yesterday
as well. That was lit fun there vice
president of international business at
Geek Plus and subscribers can watch us
live and see our past interviews on our
interactive function that's TV go. You
can also dive into any of the securities
or Bloomberg functions we talk about.
Plus, become part of the conversation by
sending us instant messages during the
programming as well. So, check it out at
TV go. We'll have plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Well, Malaysia's Prime Minister Anoir
Ibrahim will make an appeal for lower
tariffs when he meets US Secretary of
State Marco Rubio today at the Azan
meeting. Let's bring in our Mim Lo. She
joins us now from KL. Mman, what's going
on?
Yes, we actually just saw the Chinese
foreign minister Wangi coming out of the
meeting room. He just completed the
session with the Azan foreign ministers.
Uh he walked past the media pool and
didn't take any questions from the
media. I did manage to follow him for a
short distance and to ask directly if he
is going to meet with Marco Rubio today.
But he smiled at us and remained very
tight lipped. So no answers from him.
But as he was coming out, he did uh grab
hold of the hand of the Malaysian
foreign minister for quite a quite a
while actually. And it is I guess a very
symbolic gesture in front of the media
to show this close ties between Azan
countries and China. They're continuing
to deepen cooperation even amid this
global climate of rising protectionism.
Of course, Marco Rubio is here as well.
He will be meeting with Azan foreign
ministers later this afternoon. He's
also going to be meeting the Russian
foreign minister Sergey Lavrov. That's a
meeting that we are closely watching
because it comes as Russia has been
pounding Ukrainian cities with a record
amount of drones and missiles. President
Trump has expressed his displeasure. He
said he is going to be looking closely
at this new um uh bill that is
introduced by the Senate to sanction
Russia and countries that buy LG oil
petroleum products from Russia. So of
course China is a big buyer. What are
the implications then for China US
relations very important as well will
Marco Rubio be sitting down with Wangi?
Wangi didn't say no. So it is possible
we still have a couple of days to go
here. Possible that maybe that meeting
could happen at the last minute. We're
certainly keeping an eye on that.
That was our China correspondent, Mim
Min Lo there. And some of the other
stories that we're tracking this
morning. Well, in the tech space, uh,
Nvidia's valuation briefly topped $4
trillion in the New York session, making
it the first company in history to hit
that milestone. The stocks risen more
than 20% this year and more than 1,000%
since the beginning of 2023. The latest
catalyst has been a commitment to AI
spending from its biggest customers as
demand for its computing systems remains
strong. You can see in that chart there
the the rally that we've seen. But in
the tech space as well, Meta is making
unusually high compensation offers to
new members of its so-called super
intelligence team. We're told that
includes a $200 million package for
former Apple engineer Roma Pang. Sources
say much of that money is tied up in
performance targets to be unlocked over
years. And we're told Apple didn't try
to match Meta's offer, which far exceeds
pay for anyone there except CEO Tim
Cook. And staying on tech, of course,
and Elon Musk's XAI chatbot at Gro 4. I
mean, it's set to to to launch in the
next hours, this latest iteration, but
it's certainly launching at a moment
when it's also facing a lot of
challenges with with the existing Gro
platform in place as well. the the fur
this week has really been around some
anti-semitic posts that were shared
early this week and now we're seeing the
backlash from that in places as far away
as Poland in in in Germany as well and
Musk commenting on that on social media.
Yeah. So they're trying to complete this
improve image training for Gro 4. They
certainly have a lot of PR to do uh and
damage control the next coming days or
months and just given what we've been
seeing right this backlash that Belle
you've been talking about and ultimately
you know was that the nail in the coffin
for the ex CEO Linda Yakarino to leave X
after two years of the job I mean she's
had to do a lot whether it's trying to
bring back advertisers back into the
platform also when it comes to you know
rebranding Twitter to X I mean certainly
that was some reports saying she
actually was caught off guard by that as
well and of course this whole ex merger
with X AI back in March as well and know
some people said you know the writing
was on the wall really for her to leave
but certainly it's a whole wall of worry
really when it came to her
responsibilities of managing Musk and
also the day-to-day stuff
yeah certainly she she faced a lot of
challenges there during her time as CEO
but shifting now to to also the
investment strategy of Singapore's state
investment fund rather saying exposure
to China has fallen to less than 20% of
its portfolio as a boost allocations to
the Americas and also to India. Uh but
its CIO told us about China's AI
ambitions and how those could end up
being the gamecher.
You know, in terms of AI adoption, China
is going to be pretty advanced on that.
You know, adopting AI for productivity
or other things. That's because we have
so many engineers and AI tech people out
there that the diffusion into companies
to adopt AI. I think it's going to be
quite fast. So you take an example
company like Tencent, you know, we
invested out there. It is clearly
benefiting from AI in terms of how it
uses it for its own business. So I do
think you will see uh in China to
particularly on the adopters side
significant opportunities for us to
invest.
How long-term a view would you have to
take on that though? Because it's
interesting we've seen these AI
developments yet. They're not really
driving tech earnings upgrades. That
seems to be quite modest still. So at
the near term it's obviously having an
impact on productivity for those who
find it who are equipped to use it. So
the most exa obvious example of that is
let's say the magnificent 6 you know
companies like uh Microsoft or Google or
Amazon and they all talk about the fact
that they need far few coders for
example and actually one of the ways
that their earnings are being upgraded
is because how they manage their costs
as AI improves productivity. So we
already are seeing it in one group of
companies who are best equipped to use
it. As that gets diffused across more
and more companies who have the ability
to use it, I think you will see that
spread out. Now it may take time but I
think on some companies you're already
seeing that today.
How are you managing the China real
estate exposure as well?
So look that has been a challenge over
the last few years. Um I don't think we
out of the woods out there but uh the
pace of decline has I would say
stabilized to some extent. The
government's very conscious about
stabilizing the real estate market and
they're taking efforts towards that.
They clearly don't want a bubble to be
recreated. So I don't think we can
expect a sharp rebound. uh but it is
something that our portfolio companies
because I think our China real estate
exposure is primarily through our PPCs
like capital land and maple tree and you
know they are looking to see how to
manage through this environment
including making investments elsewhere
too.
Would you say that previously it was a
bit more cautious in the past year at
least when you're looking at China
investing and that now there's a change
a more positive outlook for Tamasic. So
I would say with China's always been a
very important market for us and one of
our biggest markets and uh and we think
you know as a $18 trillion economy uh
there will always be significant
opportunities for us. So our focus out
there and compared to most other asset
owners our exposure there is is very
very significant. What has happened in
the last year? I mean I would say a
couple of things uh confidence has
improved particularly amongst
entrepreneurs. uh deepseek was one
moment which actually led everyone to
believe that despite these trade
tensions uh China can compete uh with
the best. There's also belief amongst
private companies that the government is
supportive of them and so you are seeing
that improved confidence out there. The
government's also made it clear that yes
they're not going to create a bubble in
the economy. So you're not going to see
a major turbocharging the economy but
they will provide stimulus wherever they
feel that growth is slowing down to
levels that are not acceptable to them.
So the downside risks uh that we were
concerned about last year the government
has actually put a floor to that by
saying look we will provide support to
make sure that the economy continues to
grow at a certain level and you've seen
first half of this year our estimates
are it'll you know grow over 5%. So in
that sense it's changed but I think our
view on China even last year and this
year was that there will always be
highquality companies particularly
focused on the China domestic market for
us to invest in and we continue to do
that.
And that was the Tomasic CIO there
speaking with our colleague Averil Hong.
I just want to get you an update when it
comes to the weather here. Yeah, it's
looking bad but not as bad right now. So
they're still seeing that the dark
clouds loom, but we downgraded from a
red to now amber rainstorm in just the
last couple minutes as well. Plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
The Warbert Pinka CEO says private
equity firms will continue to face
headwinds from a structurally higher
rate environment. Jeffrey Pearlman told
us exclusively that long-term borrowing
costs are likely to continue leaning
towards multi-deade highs.
You know, the industry, you know,
benefited and the world probably has
benefited from, you know, rates coming
down over the last 40 uh years. Look,
this is the first time in 40 years
you're seeing a structural step up in
rates. I think, you know, as I said
today, for a number of factors, I think
you'd probably lean towards a 10-year
that's probably more in a 4 to 6% range
than a 2 to 4% range. And by the way,
that's an environment on a long-term
basis. You know, that's not, you know,
crazy high. You know, as investors, we
can make money in that type of an
environment. But I think what it will do
is the ones the folks who overextended
themselves, especially in the 21
vintage, uh, with very, very high
valuations, that is going to be very,
very tough. And so what I do think will
happen, reputations will be reset as a
result of I think folks who probably did
too much uh in 2021.
When we talk about pees, it's always
about exits and we know that a lot of uh
companies find it challenging especially
in this kind of environment. How are you
looking at it? Where are the
opportunities and you know what's so
challenging about the current
environment?
Yeah. No, look, I mean, I I think you
know the thing that's been a little
frustrating from an industry
perspective, at least from my
perspective, is this has been a pretty
positive equity market backdrop, right?
So, there should have been kind of more
exits during this period of time. I
could understand it more after the GFC
or after the tech uh, you know, bubble
burst. You had two years of kind of poor
equity markets and therefore it was
challenging time for exits. This has
been a pretty good last couple years for
the public equity markets, even if you
take away the performance of the
Magnificent 7. And so for us, we've been
very active on the exit front. I mean,
we've distributed 50% more money, I
think you guys have reported, than we've
invested over that period of time. And
so, you know, the but but the difference
is is the the reason we've been able to
do it is being diversified because you
can always find pockets in the portfolio
that's not correlated. One year it may
be that you can sell more in Asia, the
other year you can sell more in Europe.
Some years you can sell more healthcare,
other years you can sell more technology
like we did last year. You know to me
that's what the industry had gone away
from. Too many folks went away from
diversification and were too focused on
single sector single country single
stage of investment and I think that's
where they've gotten themselves in a
little
but how does diversification look like a
good diversification portfolio look
like? Because if you take a look at the
P market yes India looks healthy but a
lot of people are stuck in China for
instance. So how does it all play? How
should it look? Yeah, look it with a
diversified portfolio, not everything is
going to work at the same time. That's
the definition of of being diversified.
But the key is is that you don't
overextend yourself. You know, we think
about it as the beta can get you in the
top quartortile in private equity, but
it can also get you into the bottom
cortile. And that's if you're too
focused in one sector, one geography.
And that overexposure can can both help
you, but can also hurt you
substantially. That's why in our view
this diversification by design that
we've used at Warberg has been very
valuable. But that's diversification
uh by number of investments by vintage
making sure you invest about the same
amount year in year out and then by
sector and geography. That to me is
proper diversification.
And does the Middle East factor into
that? Because we know you made inroads
into uh the Gulf nations and that seems
to be the hot spot right now. Yeah,
look, I mean, obviously there's
tremendous capital there. Um, but
there's also opportunity. And so, like
anything, we were early, as I said, in
in Asia 30 years ago. We were in Asia.
We went to Europe, you know, 40 45 years
ago. And so, we look at the Middle East
and we see opportunity. We've made uh
investments there in the past. Uh
companies like Network International
were very successful investments. And
and when I look at kind of near-term
opportunities, there's a clear need for
digital infrastructure, for logistics,
uh these are areas that we've been big
investors in uh around the world. And I
think you know could be again very
interesting uh attractive opportunities
as we look out over the next few years.
That was the Warbert Pinker CEO Jeffrey
Pelman speaking to Bloomberg's Hass
Linda Amin there and we are going
through the market session today and
there's certainly a lot of things to be
watching out for but chief among those
is going to be what happens with this
JGB auction coming up later today. It's
an auction for the 20-y year and and
certainly the results are going to be
watched very closely here because we
want to see is there weak demand. Is
there still those concerns? I know we
still going to see the longer end really
driving the bond market dynamics. But
also taking a look at what's happening
in the crypto space today because
Bitcoin, I mean we briefly touched
$112,000. We never seen that.
Yeah. And look at Hobby Tech. We're up
some 13% here in Hong Kong. So certainly
there's a lot of opportunities and
people looking at maybe yes, we're going
to lean towards risk here despite all
these tariff headlines and and and what
we're seeing from President Trump.
That's it for us here in the China show.
Insight with Helina Amen is next.
[Music]